gtkpod V2.1.4

  Incremental Release

  BUGFIXES: playlist display and coverart display. Thanks to J. Neuschafer

  BUGFIX: Fix showing tracks of selected artist on 64-bit systems. Thanks to Benno.

  IMPROVMENT: Update clutter, glib and gtk deprecations and updates the glib minimum version to 2.31 
              which was released in 2011.

  BUGFIX: Handle attempts to create duplicate-named playlist.


gtkpod V2.1.3

	Incremental Release

	BUGFIX: Avoid filter tab categories having null values by including a default value.
					Thanks to j. neuschaefer
    
	IMPROVEMENT: Solve the confusing sorting of the track display. Track display sort order is only applied if
	             the tm_autostore preference has been set. Otherwise sorting of tracks in a playlist is 
							 completely manual through a set of radio buttons, as well as selecting the column names.

	IMPROVEMENT: Reduce number of selection changed callbacks making track selection more efficient

	BUGFIX: Ensure files with an upper case file extension are loaded correctly

	BUGFIX: Selection of bugs identified in atomic parsley library. Thanks to Joel Smith for both
	        identifying and fixing.

	BUGFIX: Fixes and updates to translations. Thanks to Daniele Forsi and Zhixin Tan

	BUGFIX: Fix setting the default width of main window

	IMPROVEMENT: Make it easier for the user to retry entering a valid playlist name

	BUGFIX: Do not accept empty names for smart playlists
    
	BUGFIX: Fix segfault when using playcount spin buttons
    
	BUGFIX: Fix multiple icons appearing when toggling plugins in preferences window
  
	BUGFIX: Fix m4a track length value calculated in atomic parsely library

	IMPROVEMENT: Fix to cater for changing API in anjuta version 3.5.3+. Thanks to dimstar at opensuse.org.

	BUGFIX: Fix for potential crashes when deleting all tracks. Thanks to goetz.waschk at gmail.com.


gtkpod V2.1.2
	
	Incremental release

	FEATURE: sjcd plugin, incorporating the sound juicer CD ripper into gtkpod

	FEATURE: external player plugin restoring functionality to play tracks through a configured external
	         media player
	
	FEATURE: replace dependency on libmp4v2 (incompatible licence) with integrated mp4 read/write library
	         based on the atomic parsley application (http://atomicparsley.sourceforge.net)

	IMPROVEMENT: Reduce time for listing of tracks in track display in big repositories

	BUGFIX: Fix threading issues / deadlocks with music player, filters and track display

	BUGFIX: Fix crash when anjuta g_settings schema is not installed

	BUGFIX: Fixes highlighted by clang compiler (thank to Daniel Forsi)

	BUGFIX: Fix for double free when adding music using the 'add folder' command


gtkpod V2.1.1

	Incremental release

	FEATURE: Clarity plugin for alternative display of coverart using clutter/opengl

  IMPROVEMENT: Make splash screen preference to allow it to be disabled

	IMPROVEMENT: Update core app code to align with current anjuta

	BUGFIX: Reintroduce track normalization

	BUGFIX: Allows the LOG path to contain spaces. 
	        Thanks to Walt Ogburn <reuben at ugcs.caltech.edu> for the bug report and patch.


  libgtkpod

	BUGFIX: Allow broadcast of string preferences

	BUGFIX: Provide some sensible sorting of tracks when added from files / directories

	BUGFIX: Ensure progress bar is updated when saving ipod database

	BUGFIX: Avoid possibility of symlinks, when adding files, hanging gtkpod
	
	BUGFIX: Display track conversion progress correctly


	Edit Track Details

  BUGFIX: Fix for track volume control


  Coverart Display plugin

	BUGFIX: Avoid trying to unreference NULL album art in cover art display plugin

  BUGFIX: Ensure signal handlers are disconnected on plugin deactivation


	Track Display plugin

	BUGFIX: Fix incorrect default preferences

	BUGFIX: Ensure order of tracks in playlist is preserved on ipod

	BUGFIX: Make the track display filter case-insensitive


	Repository Editor plugin

	BUGFIX: Fix runtime errors on getting active model iter


	Playlist Display plugin

	IMPROVEMENT: Allow multiple selection of playlists

	BUGFIX: Smart playlist wizard not correctly displaying playlist rules


	Sort Tab Display plugin

	IMPROVEMENT: Allow multiple selection of entries in filter windows


gtkpod V2.1.0

	Release for the migration to gtk 3.0

	IMPROVEMENT: Migrates the application to the new gtk 3.0 framework.

	UPDATE: Removal of GSEALED checks on gdk due to assumption of gdk 3 being
                sealed.

	BUGFIX: Allow LDFLAGS to be specified on command line.

	BUGFIX: Fix compilation error for the mac port.

	BUGFIX: Removed deprecated gtk / gdk function calls - thanks to dimstar



gtkpod V2.0.2

	Incremental release, targeted towards fixing identifed bugs.

	IMPROVEMENT: Stop multiple error dialogs displaying when adding tracks.

	BUGFIX: Fixes to translations and documentation - thanks to mfv.

	BUGFIX: Support for m4b file type missing.

	BUGFIX: Errors not being cascaded when writing track tag info.

	BUGFIX: Stop segmentation faults on exit from freeing of directory paths.

	BUGFIX: Incorrect use of as-needed flag in configure script.


gtkpod V2.0.1
	Incremental release, targeted towards fixing identified bugs.

	BUGFIX: Stop exporter plugin crashes by avoiding display of dialogs.

	IMPROVEMENT: Only link plugins to their respective libraries rather than
	             libgtkpod library.

	BUGFIX: Stop unloading plugins when quitting. Avoids throwing a gobject
	        exception.

	BUGFIX: Dispose directory paths when quitting.

	BUGFIX: Fix segfault if gstreamer plugins are not installed.

	BUGFIX: Allow compiling of m4a and mp4 plugins against older versions of
					libmp4v2.

	BUGFIX: Formatting strings correction in gtkpod_log_error. Thanks to
	        Götzg (goetz.waschk AT gmail.com).

	BUGFIX: Remove deprecated gtk code.

  BUGFIX: Final removal of glade dependencies but still need to depend on
	        libxml2.

gtkpod V2.0.0
	UI completely reworked with anjuta as the windowing system. Provides
	major features as plugins that can be added and removed depending upon
	user preference.

	IMPROVEMENT: Replacement of glade with gtkbuilder

	BUGFIXES: Lots ... Thanks to everybody who contributed. See the ChangeLog
	for details.

	TRANSLATIONS: Thanks to the efforts of all translators, including those
	on www.transifex.net/projects/p/gtkpod/

gtkpod V1.0.0
	Final release of gtkpod before the major UI refactorings with anjuta
	are incorporated.

	BUGFIX: Make dialogs transient with gtkpod window

	IMPROVEMENT: Make the no extended database message clearer

	BUGFIX: Failure to read lyrics file no longer displays a warning dialog for
	each track. Instead it displays the error in the lyrics tab.

	BUGFIX: Track filter tends to display no results

	BUGFIX: Various deficiencies with audiobooks. Thanks to Joel Smith.

	NEW FEATURE: Catalan translation of application include. Thanks to Nofre Móra.

	BUGFIX: Memory leaks. Thanks to Andrea Ordetti.

gtkpod V0.99.16

       NEW FEATURE: Volumn control added to detail window for setting
       the volume of a track. Thanks to Andrea Odetti.

       IMPROVEMENT: Migration from hal, which is now deprecated, to gio.
       Thanks to Nikias Bassen.       

       IMPROVEMENT: Translation support.

       IMPROVEMENT: Support for using CMake as well as autotools

       IMPROVEMENT: Code compatibility for compiling using Clang. Thanks
       to Maia Kozheva.

       BUGFIX: Crash when a cover art image is dragged and dropped.

       BUGFIX: Freeze when changing from the photo window back to the
       playlist window.

       BUGFIX: Numerous double frees and memory leaks.

gtkpod V0.99.14

       NEW FEATURE: Help system, still very preliminary.

       NEW FEATURE: Video thumbnail generation, thanks to M. Sean Finney

       NEW FEATURE: Lyrics may be viewed and edited via the Details window
       for a track. Only mp3 files are supported currently (patches welcome
       to remove this limitation). Writing lyric tags may still have
       compatibility issues on some iPod's. Thanks to Dudy Kohen.

       NEW FEATURE: Add a search bar, to quickly filter tracks.

       UPDATE: New application icon.

       UPDATE: Preferences dialog redesigned from the ground up for GNOME
       HIG compliance.

       UPDATE: Hebrew translation. Thanks to Assaf Gillat.

       UPDATE: Italian translation. Thanks to Daniele Forsi.

       UPDATE: Romanian translation. Thanks to Alex Eftimie.

       UPDATE: Spanish translation. Thanks to Alejandro Lamas Daviña.

       UPDATE: Swedish translation. Thanks to Stefan Asserhäll.

       NEW FEATURE: Added simple Chinese translation. Thanks to Tan Zhixin.

       IMPROVEMENT: Numerous UI cleanups

       IMPROVEMENT: Support for chapter data, thanks to Michael Tiffany

       IMPROVEMENT: Use cairo for coverart display effects. This allows the
       dependency on libgnomecanvas to be dropped.

       IMPROVEMENT: Coverart display performance has been improved.

       IMPROVEMENT: Better support for Windows compilation in Cygwin,
       thanks to Éric Lassauge.

       IMPROVEMENT: Set track->lyrics_flag for mp4 files in addition to mp3
       files.

       IMPROVEMENT: Use the Artist tag for the Artist and fall back to the
       Album Artist tag only when the former does not exist. For Album
       Artist, use the Album Artist tag, but only if the Artist tag does
       exist. Thanks to Dudy Kohen.

       BUGFIX: The Photo "playlist" is now a separate object in the
       Playlist view.

       BUGFIX: Numerous memory leaks fixed, thanks to Andrea, Tomas
       Carnecky, and others.

       Many other bug fixes and cleanups, see the ChangeLog for more detail.

gtkpod V0.99.12

       NEW FEATURE: Import and management of photographs on ipods
       that support them. Update of README to include photo management.

       UPDATE: Application requires libgpod version 0.6.0 or higher.

       UPDATE: Better icon theme specification compliance.

       BUGFIX: Fixes to tomboy script. Thanks to Javier Kohen.

       BUGFIX: Issues with display of track length. Inconsistent units used
       in conjunction with libgpod (Jorg).

       UPDATE: Cover art preview window either displays an album cover
       to its full size or to a size consistent with the user's desktop.

       UPDATE: Download of Album Art from the net feature modified to the
       ability of dragging-and-dropping a .jpg image from a web browser. This
       has been changed due to licensing concerns over album art. Drag and
       Drop section of README updated accordingly (Paul).

       BUGFIX: Issues on detecting changed local / podcast database. Thanks to
       Mario Rossi.

       BUGFIX: Issues addressed on Details Window.

       BUGFIX: Crash avoided when auto-detecting an iTunes database that
       cannot be read.

       UPDATE: Display of error output of scripts (Jorg).

       IMPROVEMENT: Configuring and Compilation support (Todd).

       UPDATE: New scripts for flac, ogg, mp3, m4a, wav conversion to mp3 and
       m4a. Thanks to Peter van de Does.

       BUGFIX: Model number identified and written to ipod upon loading to ensure
       libgpod can read the ipod's artwork.

       UPDATE: Updates and bug fixes to gapless playback. Thanks to
       Michael Tiffany.

       BUGFIX: When Cover Art Display is widened, covers space out rather
       than stretch.

       BUGFIX: Fixed memory leaks in CoverArt Display and Details window.
       Thanks to Daniele Forsi.

       UPDATE: French translation. Thanks to Éric Lassauge.

       UPDATE: Italian translation. Thanks to Daniele Forsi.

       UPDATE: Hebrew translation. Thanks to Assaf Gillat.

       UPDATE: Swedish translation. Thanks to Stefan Asserhäll.

       NEW FEATURE: Added Romanian translation support. Thanks to
       Alex Eftimie.

       NEW FEATURE: Added Russian translation support. Thanks to
       Matvey Kozhev.

gtkpod V0.99.10

       NEW FEATURE: on-the-fly conversion of WAV, FLAC and OGG (as well
       as MP3 and M4A). Thanks to Marc d[readlock], Simon Naunton and
       Peter Edwards! Multi-threaded background conversion was added by
       Jorg Schuler.

       NEW FEATURE: editing of TV show metadata and track media
       type. Thanks to Mario Rossi.

       NEW FEATURE: Display of Album Art. Thanks to P.G. Richardson.

       NEW FEATURE: Download of Album Art from the net. Thanks to
       P.G. Richardson.

       NEW FEATURE: copy playlists and tracks from within the context
       menu without DND can simplify life with many playlists. Thanks
       to Andrzej Palejko for his patch.

       NEW FEATURE: preliminary support for calculating gapless
       playback information (lame encoded mp3 files only).  Thanks to
       Michael Tiffany.

       UPDATE: Smart playlists now support the following new fields:
       album artist, tv show, last skipped, season number, skipcount
       and video kind.

       IMPROVEMENT: Clicking on an item with the right mouse button
       will select and open the context menu, which is the intended
       behavior. As a consequence, the interface will remain blocked
       while the selection is being updated and displayed.

       BUGFIX: dragging tracks between two iPods would sometimes not
       actually copy the file.

       UPDATED: Italian translation (thanks to Daniele Forsi)

       PACKAGING: Install a .desktop file and icons according to the
       freedesktop.org specification.

gtkpod V0.99.8

       NEW FEATURE: Support of several iPods (currently you need to
       edit the itdb_* entries in ~/.gtkpod/prefs to add
       repositories). Each iPod can be loaded/ejected
       individually. Scripts are called before loading (gtkpod.load)
       and after saving (gtkpod.eject) with the mountpoint as the
       first argument. If you need to mount the iPod manually, put the
       mount command in gtkpod.load.

       NEW FEATURE: Support for mobile phones supporting iTunes (see
       Changelog_detailed for details)

       NEW FEATURE: Lyrics are displayed on the iPod when available.

       NEW FEATURE: Preliminary (no meta data) support of h.264 video
       format via the libmp4v2 interface. Thanks to Peter Lieverdink.

       NEW FEATURE: Script to sync notes from Tomboy to the
       iPod. Thanks to Tejas Dinkar.

       NEW FEATURE: Support of iTunes iTunNORM tag for volume
       normalisation of mp4 tracks.

       NEW FEATURE: Support of aacgain's replay gain tag for volume
       normalisation of mp4 tracks (takes precedence over the iTunNORM
       tag, see http://altosdesign.com/aacgain/)

       NEW FEATURE: Support for start time, stop time, skip when
       shuffling and remember playback position.

       IMPROVEMENT: Support for coverart has been improved. You may
       have to select your iPod model from a list of available models
       if your iPod cannot be identified automatically, as is the case
       for iTunes mobile phones or the new 6th generation iPod Nanos.
       Coverart embedded in the music file (APIC tag) can now also
       read. Support to read the coverart from specified files is
       still available though. Please note that at present APIC
       support only works when adding tracks directly to the iPod. It
       does not work when you add tracks to a LOCAL repository first
       and use Drag and Drop to move the track to your iPod.

       IMPROVEMENT: Podcasts are marked as unplayed (on the iPod, with
       a bullet in front of the title) when newly added to the podcast
       list, and unmarked once they have been played once on the iPod.

       IMPROVEMENT: Support to sync thunderbird's address book to an
       iPod Nano with old firmware that would otherwise only display
       the first address. This script may be useful to other users as
       well as it writes out one vcf file per contact instead of just
       one big file containing all contacts. Thanks to Paul Oremland.

       IMPROVEMENT: Handle multiple calendar and task files in
       sync-evocalendar script. Thanks to Michele C. Soccio

       NEW: Spanish translation. Thanks to Alejandro Lamas.

       BUGFIX: Pressing 'OK' when syncing directories several times
       could crash gtkpod. Thanks to dforsi.

       BUGFIX: Exporting tracks did not work if the template
       extensions (.mp3...) did not match case-sensitively, possibly
       leading to non-exported tracks. Thanks to Mattias Wadman.

       BUGFIX: When updating tracks, the filename of the music file
       and the filename of the thumbnail could be messed up. Fixed.

       BUGFIX: The Edit Detail dialog did not handle the 'Year' field
       correctly.

       BUGFIX: When updating tracks, files were not copied to the iPod
       even if the file was changed.

       BUGFIX: Removing playlists could crash gtkpod.

       WORKAROUND: Disable sorting of playlist view as this crashed
       gtkpod.

gtkpod V0.99.4

       BUGFIX: Options for exporting playlist files could not be
       changed.

       BUGFIX: Fixed segfault when updating tracks or directories with
       artowrk present.

       BUGFIX: Browse button for "Sync Notes Script" opened a
       directory browser instead of a file browser.

       BUGFIX: Writing ID3v2.4 tags in UTF8 did not always
       work. Thanks to 't0c' for the patch.

       BUGFIX: Context Menus for removing playlists from the iPod were
       not displayed. Thanks to 'rob/biffhero' for pointing this out.

gtkpod V0.99.2
       BUGFIX: Fix segfault when applying preferences.

       BUGFIX: Don't require libcurl (not actively used).

       UPDATE: Swedish translation catalog

       IMPROVEMENT: Allow export of multiple thunderbird address
       books (by naming the output filename).

gtkpod V0.99.0
       NEW: type-ahead search functionality. Thanks to Nick Piper,
       http://www.nickpiper.co.uk/ -- please note that the list view
       you want to search in needs to have keyboard focus. Selection
       of the search column is done by clicking anywhere inside the
       column.

       NEW: Handle Compilations decently. The compilation mp3 tag is
       read and written, and compilation artists can be grouped into
       "Compilations" in the Artist filter tab. Thanks to Iain Benson!

       NEW: Window for edit of track details, including functionality
       to set thumbnails. The thumbnails are not stored as tags in the
       file as iTunes does it. Instead, the original filename is
       stored.

       NEW: Display and setting/removing of thumbnail images. Choose
       "Show Details" from the context menu (right mouse-button). New
       thumbnails are displayed by the iPod but get wiped by iTunes,
       however.

       NEW: Automatic adding of thumbnail images when adding new
       tracks or updating existing ones. See the option on the 'Track
       Info' page of the preferences dialog for settings about which
       filename will be used. Any filename is possible, even filenames
       constructed from the album or artist name.

       NEW: very basic iPod video support (you can add Videos but no
       metadata is filled in). Thanks to Uwe Herman for the input.

       NEW: script to sync contacts from a Palm (via jppy
       http://wiki.zanu.org.uk/jppy). Thanks to Nick Piper,
       http://www.nickpiper.co.uk/)

       NEW: basic podcast support (use e.g. bashpodder or gpodder to
       download podcasts, then add them directly into the podcast
       playlist on the iPod).

       NEW: transition to libgpod to read/write iTunesDB. See
       www.gtkpod.org/libgpod.html for details.

       IMPROVEMENT: added comment, category, description, podcast url,
       podcast rss, subtitle fields and release date to displayable
       fields.

       IMPROVEMENT: Support playcounts on iPod Shuffle as well

       IMPROVEMENT: Remember size of 'Edit Smart Playlist' dialog and
       use scrolled window for the rules display.

       IMPROVEMENT: Update smart playlists automatically (on
       load/display/save) if 'live updating' is set.

       IMPROVEMENT: Support for more mp3 file tags: Compilation
       (TCMP), Podcast URL/Title (TID), Podcast Description (TDS),
       Podcast Subtitle (TT3), Podcast RSS (WFD), Podcast Release Date
       (TDR). Mostly reading only because of limited support on
       id3tag's side.

       UPDATED: Italian translation (thanks to Edward Matteucci)

       BUGFIX: 'Check iPod's files' could crash under certain
       circumstances (thanks to David Mansfield for the patch).

       BUGFIX: Lame's Replay Gain was read incorrectly for certain
       values. Thanks to Chris Brotherton for tracking this down.

       BUGFIX: Prevent that all rules in a smart playlist get deleted,
       which would mess up the iTunesDB.

       BUGFIX: Choosing 'Delete' from the menu (not context menu) now
       works again.

gtkpod V0.95.CVS
       NEW: script to sync addressbooks in ldif format provided by
       Sebastien BERIDOT.

       NEW: script to sync kNotes (KDE note program) provided by
       Sebastian Scherer.

       CHANGE: MP3 tags: use 'Band/Orchestra/Accompaniment' (TPE2) as
       artist if it exists. Otherwise use 'Lead artist/Lead
       performer/Soloist/Performing group' (TPE1) as before. Let me
       know if this causes problems for you.

       UPDATED Hebrew translation (thanks to Assaf Gillat)

       SAFETY: call sync() and flush all buffers to the iPod after
       writing the iTunesDB -- should minimise filesystem errors
       caused by people disconnecting the iPod without unmounting.

       BUGFIX: Copying playlists by drag and drop could confuse smart
       playlists referencing these playlists. Fixed.

       After copying playlists by drag and drop, smart playlists
       refering to these playlists could become confused.

gtkpod V0.94.0
       NEW FEATURE: stable sorting of track view. This allows you, for
       example, to first sort by title, then by artist. The list will
       then be sorted by artist, but all titles of each artist remain
       sorted as well (before the tiles were random).
       Arbitrary depth and order of stable sorting is possible by
       clicking the sort columns in the desired order.

       NEW FEATURE: define your own ignore list of words that should
       be ignored during sorting (sort options: ctrl-s).

       IMPROVEMENT: improved handling of dangling files (files that
       are referenced in the iTunesDB but are not present on the
       iPod).

       IMPROVEMENT: use 'eject' instead of 'umount'. Also fixes the
       bug that 'could not unmount' was always displayed, even if the
       umount was successful (thanks to Andreas Hauber).

       BUGFIX: Some iTunesDB files written by iTunes could not be read
       because of an error in the parse code (gtkpod would attempt to
       read beyond the end of the file).

       BUGFIX: Fixed compatibility issue with new firmware 3.1 and
       iTunes 4.9 (only 256 tracks were shown on the iPod, iTunes
       removed the majority of the tracks from the iPod). Podcasts are
       still not supported, however, and will be lost when handled by
       gtkpod.

       BUGFIX: Fixed On-The-Go playlist handling (thanks to "Todd").

       UPDATE: Hebrew translation catalog. Thanks to Assaf Gillat!

gtkpod V0.93.1
       BUGFIX: When changing the mountpoint, the change was not
       written to the preferences file correctly.

       BUGFIX: 'Copy from iPod' just failed in offline mode instead of
       giving meaningful error messages -> fixed.

       IMPROVEMENT: 'Copy from iPod' is now 'Export from Database' and
       allows to export from the local database as well. This is
       useful if you want to rename files in a consistant manner.

gtkpod V0.93
	Complete rewrite of reading/writing the iTunesDB. The code for
	reading and writing the iTunesDB (and other iPod/Shuffle
	files) is completely self-contained (itdb*.[ch]) and can
	easily be used in other projects.

	NEW FEATURE: Support of 'local database' containing tracks on
	local harddisk. The contents of the local hard disk can be
	browsed in the known gtkpod-fashion: by artist or genre or
	album etc. Tracks and entire playlists can be dragged over to
	the iPod or Shuffle database. By using smart playlists with
	defined size in MBytes, the Shuffle can be filled effectively.

	Drag and drop also works in the opposite direction: drag
	tracks or entire playlists from the iPod/Shuffle database into
	your local database. If necessary, the tracks are copied to
	your harddisk automatically.

	NEW FEATURE: sync-abook.sh and sync-webcalendar.sh scripts
	provided by Daniel Kercher.

	NEW FEATURE: sync-thunderbird.sh script	provided by Clinton
	Gormley.

	IMPROVEMENT: support MP3 disc numbers (thanks to Leigh Dyer)

	IMPROVEMENT: Use of GTK filechoosers instead of fileselectors
	(thanks to James Ligget)

	IMPROVEMENT: sync-notes.sh now also works on directories (thanks
	to Thomas Perl)

	UPDATE: use 'iconv' instead of 'recode' in the provided export
	scripts. Thanks to Alexey Dokuchaev.

	UPDATE: All translation catlogs updated (French, German,
	Italian, Japanese and Swedish)

	BUGFIX: display and reading of compilation flag fixed (thanks
	to Julien Oster for the patch)

	BUGFIX: don't hang when parsing playlist files with empty
	lines (thanks to Mattias Wadman)

	BUGFIX: When exporting from the iPod: if the original filename
        of a track was available, the track was not copied from the
        iPod but from the original location on the user's
        harddisk. Had the original file been removed or the export was
        done on another computer (where the original file was not
        present), the export failed.

gtkpod V0.88.2
	IMPROVEMENT: Added '%p' (current playlist) identifier when
	exporting tracks.

	BUGFIX: DND in playlist view did not work.

	BUGFIX: scripts sync_evolution, sync_evocalendar and sync_notes
	were not included in standard distribution.

gtkpod V0.88.1
	BUGFIX: Should now work with the shuffle -- forgot to change a
	version number in the iTunesDB file :-(

gtkpod V0.88
	NEW FEATURE: Support for iPod Shuffle. Thanks to Steve Wahl.

	BUGFIX: In smartlists star rating better supported. One star is
	"1" and not "20".

gtkpod V0.87
	NEW FEATURE: Support for smart playlists.

	NEW FEATURE: Added scripts sync_evolution, sync_evocalendar and
	sync_notes to synchronise Contacts, Calendar and Tasks from
	Evolution and to synchronise Notes with anything in the folder
	~/ipod_notes.

        BUGFIX: drag and drop was only implemented for mp3 files, not
        for m4a, m4p, m4b, and wav files (thanks to Chris Micacchi for
        pointing it out and supplying a first fix).

	BUGFIX: Category playlists "for each year" did not work.

	BUGFIX: Invalid charset conversion could hang gtkpod.

	IMPROVEMENT: Support for iTunes' "checked", filedescriptor (kind),
	and grouping fields.

	IMPROVEMENT: When sorting ignore 'the' and similar at the
	beginning of the title (thanks to Chris Micacchi)

	IMPROVEMENT: Use statvfs() instead of a call to the external
	command "df" to determine the free space on the iPod (thanks
	to Steve Jay)

	IMPROVEMENT: The fields "time_modified/played/created" can now
	be edited from within the track view.

	IMPROVEMENT: Creation of playlists for each rating
	(Unrated, and Rated 1..5).

	UPDATE: Swedish translation catalog

	UPDATE: Italian translation catalog

gtkpod V0.85.0
	BUGFIX: when clicking onto the column header of the track
	treeview three times and moving sidewards with the mouse at
	the same time, gtkpod crashed. Crashing was due to a bad
	workaround of a bug in the GTK+-library. Removed workaround
	and instead submitted a bug report against GTK+. The bug has
	been fixed in version 2.5.4 of the GTK+ library.

	BUGFIX: When using "block display during updates" the display
	was still updated during import. Fixed.

	BUGFIX: The menu item "Check iPod's Files" was not reliably
	activated. It's now always selectable when not in offline
	mode.

	BUGFIX: when writing tags to file the track tag was
	deleted.

	BUGFIX: special sorttab: sorting according to "time modified"
	and "time created" did not work.

	BUGFIX: handling of orphaned tracks that had been added to the
	ipod again are now handled correctly.

	BUGFIX: fixed case-sensitivity issue while handling orphaned
	tracks.

	BUGFIX: fixed bug that caused gtkpod to hang when activating
	duplicate detection without having the list of duplicates
	displayed (must have been around ever since duplicate
	detection was introduced...)

	BUGFIX: gain tags written by mp3gain were never read
	correctly. Normalization using mp3gain was therefore
	impossible. Didn't anyone ever use that feature?!

	BUGFIX: when copying track to the iPod, the free space
	indication became bigger and bigger during the process.

	BUGFIX: Ascending and descending were interchanged in the sort
	window.

	NEW FEATURE: Implemented Michael Rolig's patch/idea to access
	mserv data for the rating. Still needs testing as I don't use
	mserv.

	NEW FEATURE: added "randomize current playlist" (only the menu
	entry without actual code was present so far).

	NEW FEATURE: support for On-The-Go Playlists. They will show
	up as "OTG Playlist 1" etc.

	NEW FEATURE: export of PLS or M3U file including meta data.

	NEW FEATURE: registering playcounts when tracks are played on
	the local machine is now possible (actually it was already
	possible in V0.80, but now the README explains how to do it).

	NEW FEATURE: Swedish translation provided by Stefan Asserhäll.

	IMPROVEMENT: Speeded up writing of iTunesDB. For me it is now
	between 1 and 15 seconds instead of between 20 and 40 seconds
	before (for security I'm using the iPod as a non-buffered
	device). A back-upped version of the iTunesDB is now always
	written to ~/.gtkpod.

	IMPROVEMENT: Speeded up display of sorted views. Thanks to
	Stefan Asserhäll for the idea and valuable input.

	IMPROVEMENT: Moved some options from the preferences dialog to
	the file chooser dialog where you need them. gtkpod now
	requires GTK2.4 to compile.

	IMPROVEMENT: Added "Time Created" support to special sorttab,
	track display and iTunesDB. (Before only "modified" and
	"played" were supported.)

	IMPROVEMENT: All information stored in the iTunesDB about
	tracks is read and written, even if the information itself is
	not used by gtkpod itself.

	IMPROVEMENT: Added new track information fields: iPod_Path,
	creation time, soundcheck, samplerate, "BPM"

	IMPROVEMENT: Volume normalizing: when importing mp3 the replay
	gain is read and the soundcheck field set accordingly. Use
	the "soundcheck" feature of the iPod to have the volume
	normalized during playback.
	If no replay gain tag is set, use the "Normalize" as usual to
	have mp3gain write a replay gain tag.

	IMPROVEMENT: The extended information database now also
	contains the iPod filename. This allows to find a certain
	track even on systems not running gtkpod/gnupod/iTunes etc.

	IMPROVEMENT: Some fixes for compilation under solaris. This
	also led to the introduction of the environment variable
	"GTKPOD_DF_COMMAND" that can be used to customize the df
	command called to probe the free space of the iPod.

gtkpod V0.80-2
	BUGFIX: gtkpod would crash right after startup if the info
	window was open when stopping gtkpod the previous time.

	BUGFIX: Fixed free space display: the digits were right, the
	unit was wrong (B instead of kB, kB instead of MB, MB instead
	of GB...).

	PATCH: gtkpod will compile with GTK V2.0 (V0.80 needed GTK
	V2.4)

	PATCH: gtkpod should compile under Fedora without patch

	PATCH: reverted to old-style check of id3tag-lib as id3tag.pc
	is not included with the id3tag distribution by default

gtkpod V0.80
	NEW FEATURE: Added support for WAV audio files

	NEW FEATURE: Added support for bookmarkable AAC files (.m4b
	files). Thanks to D.L. Sharp. More information is available at
	http://www.ipodlounge.com/articles_more.php?id=3233_0_8_0_C
	http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=61695

	NEW FEATURE: Added support for syncing contacts and calendar from
	existing applications to the iPod (on iTunesDB export and/or via
	the Tools-menu). The sync is done by calling external scripts.
	Only one script is included so far: kaddressbook_ipod. Please
	submit more for inclusion into the next release.

	NEW FEATURE: Added support for LAME's replay gain to normalize the
	volume track (thanks to Jens Taprogge). Unfortunately the
	conversion factor between LAME's replay gain and the iPod's volume
	tag are not well known yet -- your input is appreciated!

	IMPROVEMENT: Added file selectors for selecting files in the tools
	section of the preferences dialog.

	IMPROVEMENT: Added new auto-playlists: "One playlist for each
	year" and "Playlist with all songs not listed in any playlist".

	IMPROVEMENT: Can specify several templates to scan the filename
	for tags using the ';' as a separator

	IMPROVEMENT: Can specify several templates for the export
	filename. gtkpod selects according to the extension given.

	IMPROVEMENT: Streamlined layout of info window

	IMPROVEMENT: Included Andrew Huntwork's patch to fix issues
	concerning case-sensitivity of filenames under some conditions.

	IMPROVEMENT: Included Ero Carrera's patch to validate the filename
	when copying tracks from the iPod and to make a quick sync of the
	iPod's contents.

	IMPROVEMENT: When importing the iTunesDB automatically on startup,
	no window was opened until the import was finished. Thanks to
	Andrew Huntwork the window now opens before the import starts and
	progress can be followed in the usual manner.

	IMPROVEMENT: Send 'eject' to the iPod after unmounting. This only
	works under LINUX and if the user has write access to the device
	file (e.g. /dev/sda2)

	IMPROVEMENT: When writing to the iPod automatically create iPod's
	directories when they are not present.

	IMPROVEMENT: Added progress dialog with abort button when copying
	tracks from the iPod.

	BUGFIX: When dragging tracks between two playlist (i.e. into a
	newly created playlist), a new playlist was created but the tracks
	were not added.

	BUGFIX: Fixed hangup when syncing dirs

	BUGFIX: Fixed compile error when compiling without mp4 support

	BUGFIX: Fixed compile error when compiling with gcc 2.95

	BUGFIX: Tags of tracks on the iPod were never changed (fixed
	thanks to Andrew Huntwork)

	BUGFIX: Fixed calculation of remaining seconds in progress
	dialogs.

	BUGFIX: automatic update of preferences data from older version
	went awry when no preference file was present

gtkpod V0.72
        NEW FEATURE: tags can now be set from the filename using a
	template like "%a - %A/%T %t.mp3".

	IMPROVEMENT: read and write ID3v2.4 tags. This has been achieved
	by migrating to the id3tag library. Using ID3v2.4 tags with
	unicode encoding takes away the need to worry about which encoding
	is used for the tags. Old "broken"-style locale charset encodings
	in tags are still supported, of course.

	BUGFIX: configure script was broken -- even though mp4 support was
	configured in, gtkpod was built without :-(

gtkpod V0.70
	NEW FEATURE: import of AAC files (.m4a) supported, provided the
	mp4v2 library from the mpeg4ip project
	(mpeg4ip.sourceforge.net) is available during the compilation of
	gtkpod. Writing tags to AAC files is also supported.  .m4p files
	can also be imported, but they are not played by the iPod. .m4a
	files work fine.

	NEW FEATURE: info window showing total file size, play time
	etc. can be opened.

	IMPROVEMENT: Upon popular request, the menus now provide different
	entries for "Delete from iPod" and "Delete from Playlist".

	IMPROVEMENT: when deleting tracks completely from the iPod, the
	confirmation dialog also displays the number of playlists the
	tracks are members of.

	IMPROVEMENT: Quick sync possible using "Add Tracks".  Details:

	  Until now the default action when adding tracks that already
	  exist (identical full filename) was to add it again (they were
	  rejected by the duplicate detection, but that took a long time),
	  or to update the track information (option).

	  Now the default action is to skip existing tracks (identical
	  filename) or to update the track information (option). Thus, by
	  default, only new tracks are read, allowing quick
	  synchronization of entire directories.

	IMPROVEMENT: In the past, using programs other than gtkpod to
	transfer files voided the extended information file. gtkpod will
	now try to use the MD5 checksums stored in the extended
	information file to match up the data when this occurs.

	IMPROVEMENT: The 'year' tag is now supported as track view column
	and as sort tab type.

	IMPROVEMENT: The tags for track number and total number of tracks
	are displayed as nn/nn in the track view, and can also be entered
	as such.

	IMPROVEMENT: The tags for CD number and total number of CDs can
	now be displayed (analoguous to track number and total number of
	tracks above)

	IMPROVEMENT: When creating a new playlist a dialog is popped up
	asking for a name.

	BUGFIX: Drag and Drop of files with spaces did not work.

	BUGFIX: "Unsort" (clicking sort column three times) of track view
	failed if last sort tab was a "special" sort tab.

	BUGFIX: updated ID3 tag reading code from easytag's new
	version. Please also note that id3lib V3.7.3 seems to crash gtkpod
	every once in a while. V3.8.3 appears to be more stable.

gtkpod V0.60
	NEW FEATURE: normalize song volume (using mp3gain). Uses iPod's
	volume adjust feature rather than modifying the mp3 file.

	NEW FEATURE: define format of filename when copying tracks from
	iPod (mainly thanks to Sam Clegg).

	NEW FEATURE: adjust volume of each track individually by using
	iPod's per-track volume adjust feature (implemted through a new
	column in the song view).

	NEW FEATURE: automatically create a playlist for each
	album/artist/genre/composer in your collection (thanks to Chris
	Cutler), and other automatic playlist generations.

	NEW FEATURE: menu items and context menu items to create new
	playlist containing displayed songs or selected songs.

	IMPROVEMENT: Try to press the shift key when dropping songs into a
	playlist to move rather than copy tracks from one playlist to
	another. Keep in mind that songs cannot be moved from or to the
	master play list.

	IMPROVEMENT: better alphabetize interface. Alphabetize settings
	will be remembered, different settings for playlists, sort tabs,
	and tracks possible. Also, clicking the column header three times
	will revert the view to its unsorted state.

	IMPROVEMENT: handle adding of playlist files containing files with
	relative paths.

	IMPROVEMENT: context menus more intuitive, context menus will no
	longer trigger edit mode (most of the time).

	IMPROVEMENT: the function copying songs to the iPod used a "large"
	amount of stack memory (roughly 66000 Bytes) which crashed some
	systems.

	BUGFIX: md5 hash for duplicate detection will examine the same
	number of bytes on all systems now (before it used 4xPATH_MAX).

	BUGFIX: reading and writing of the Composer ID3 tags implemented
	(so far the fields could only be set from inside gtkpod -- thanks
	to Graeme Wilford)

	BUGFIX: fixed memory holes in sync_songids(), sync_dir_ok(),
	add_playlist_by_filename().

	BUGFIX: drag and drop URIs with cr/nl at the end are handled
	correctly (thanks to Walter Bell).

gtkpod V0.52
	NEW FEATURE: Supports Playcounts, Ratings, Time Last Played / Time
	Last Modified. The playcounts and ratings are read from the 'Play
	Count' file produced by iPod's firmware versions V1.3
	(playcounts only) and V2.0 (playcounts and rating).

	NEW FEATURE: If you mark several songs and change a tag in the
	first one, the corresponding tag in the other songs will be
	changed as well (must activate in the prefs menu). Patch provided
	by Ramesh Dharan. Thanks!

	IMPROVEMENT: added auto-dection of Japanese encoding (thanks to
	Hiroshi Kawashima).

	IMPROVEMENT: option to sort case-sensitively. Case-insensitive
	utf8 sort should work fine, case-sensitive may not work entirely
	as expected with some charsets.

	BUGFIX: display free size correctly even if more than 4294967295
	(or maybe just half that many?) Bytes are free on the iPod.

	BUGFIX: drag-and-drop: gtkpod should now correctly handle files
	with "special" characters (like spaces...) that are escaped in the
	DND URI. (Thanks to Walter Bell).

	BUGFIX: using 'file_export' from the context menu could crash
	gtkpod

	BUGFIX: file_export didn't remember directory last used.

	BUGFIX: can now choose zero sort tabs in the prefs dialogue
	(instead of the minimum one) -- why didn't anyone tell me?

	BUGFIX: when deleting songs, sometimes adjacent songs got edited
	(took title or artist... of the deleted song). Hopefully fixed --
	please report.

	BUGFIX: after reordering columns in the song view, the selection
	of which columns are to be displayed went haywire -- fixed.

	BUGFIX: fixed memory holes in pm_data_compare_func(),
	st_data_compare_func(), sm_data_compare_func(),
	get_ipod_used_space(), get_ipod_free_space(),
	charset_to_description(), add_playlist_by_filename(),
	sm_cell_edited().

	NEW: Italian translation catalogue (almost complete)

gtkpod V0.51
	NEW FEATURE: Synchronize directories (removed songs can be deleted
	automatically).

	NEW FEATURE: gtkpod remembers charset used when initially
	importing a song and uses this when "updating" the song
	information from file or writing tags to file (needs extended
	information enabled).

	NEW FEATURE: display free space on iPod.

	NEW FEATURE: menu item "Arrange Sort Tabs" to make all visible
	sort tabs the same size

        IMPROVEMENT: gtkpod should now compile "out of the box" under
	FreeBSD and NetBSD (some adaptations were necessary before).

        IMPROVEMENT: added all supported charsets provided by "iconv -l"
	to the list of charsets to choose from. Code assumes that "iconv
	-l" returns a list with the name of one charset in each line, each
	valid line being terminated by "//".

	IMPROVEMENT: new song column types: file size, play time,
	avg. bitrate

	BUGFIX: changed playlength code to that used by mp3info. It's much
	slower but seems to be more reliable.

	BUGFIX: fixed "dead" context menu "Alphabetize"

gtkpod V0.50
	NEW FEATURE: context sensitive popup menues (right mouse button
	click in playlist view, sort tabs or song view.

	NEW FEATURE: play song with xmms (two user definable commands).

	NEW FEATURE: option to mount the iPod directory on startup and
	unmount it on exit.

	NEW FEATURE: mount/unmount ipod directory on startup/exit, and/or
	execute ~/.gtkpod/gtkpod.in,out (or /etc/gtkpod/gtkpod.in,out if
	the former doesn't exist) on startup/exit. First gtkpod.in is
	executed, then the ipod is mounted (if this option is
	activated). On exit, it's the other way round.

	NEW FEATURE: read global prefs /etc/gtkpod/prefs if
	~/.gtkpod/prefs does not exist. Useful, e.g. to set a machine-wide
	default mountpoint for the ipod.

	IMPROVEMENT: "Add Songs" and "Add Directory" has a new default
	behaviour. They will now add songs/directories to the currently
	selected playlist. If no playlist is selected, they add to the
	master playlist.  "Add Playlist" will still create a new playlist
	before adding the songs into it. Also, when playlist files are
	added with "Add Songs" or "Add Directory" and no playlist is
	selected, a new playlist will be selected for each playlist file.

	NEW FEATURE: user settable: save song order after sort action
	automatically?

	NEW FEATURE: columns in song view can be dragged into any
	order. Order will be saved.

        Change of copyright: itunesdb.c and itunesdb.h are now under the
	GNU Lesser General Public License to make it easier to use the
	code in other programs.

	BUGFIX: when writing tags to file, all tags were updated even if
	you selected only to update changed tags in the the preferences.

	NEW FEATURE: drag and drop files/directories/playlists from
	konqueror or nautilus directly into the song view. The songs will
	be inserted at the specified position. You must already have some
	songs displayed or a drop is not possible. In that case you should
	drop into the playlist view since obviously you don't care about
	the exact position of the files in the playlist (will be added at
	the end).

	NEW FEATURE: drag and drop files/directories/playlists from
	konqueror or nautilus directly into the playlist view. If you drop
	between playlists a (number of) new playlist(s) will be created
	for the drop. If you drop onto a playlist, the songs will be added
	into that playlist. Alpha-Version!

	IMPROVEMENT: speed-up of display refreshs.  - Import of iTunesDB
	with full non-blocked display: 4x as fast (51'' against 3'35'' on
	my 2459 songs) - Refresh of first sort tab, non-blocked: 20x as
	fast (0.65'' against 13'' on my 2459 songs) - Refresh of first
	sort tab, blocked: 60x as fast (0.13'' against 7.8'' on my 2459
	songs) - Refresh of song list, non-blocked: 2x as fast (9''
	against 18'' on my 2459 songs)

gtkpod V0.43-1 28-Feb-2003
	BUGFIX: After DND operation songs were displayed twice in the
	master playlist (this was just a display artifact).

gtkpod V0.43 27-Feb-2003
        Preventive BUGFIX: in the code to import the iTunesDB all absolute
	references to positions in the iTunesDB were removed. Instead
	itunesdb.c now uses the header information to find the headers it
	needs. This should make it more reliable to read third party
	iTunesDB. This was also part of the problem with the ephpod import
	problem below (the other half of the problem was ephpod's not
	really conformant way of writing the database).

        BUGFIX: some iTunesDBs produced by ephpod could not be read (hang
	after reading the songs and before adding the playlists).

	New Feature: update song information from file when adding songs
	with identical filename (option)

        New Feature: update song information from file of selected songs
	(ctrl-u and menu item)

	BUGFIX: copy_song_to_ipod() there was a <5% chance that songs were
	overwritten by new songs during the copy process, if you deleted
	songs before adding new songs.

        BUGFIX: Deleting songs from the iPod only worked if you exported
	the iTunesDB twice.

	New Feature: Add Playlists (m3u and pls)

gtkpod V0.42 20-Feb-2003
        Bugfix: on first start gtkpod complained it could not create
	~/.gtkpod even though it could... (and vice versa).

	Improvement: display update can now be interrupted, selection
	changed at any time.

	Bugfix: gtkpod now sets bitrate (average bitrate for VBR)

        Improvement: export can be interrupted and be continued at a later
	time. gtkpod will (hopefully) correctly remember which songs have
	already been copied/deleted from your iPod.

	Improvement: removal and copy of songs during export is done in a
	separate thread, so the display doesn't freeze on long file system
	operations

        Bugfix: Kentaro Fukuchi pointed out that MusicMatch (at least the
	Japanese version) uses song IDs starting with 2 (and not with
	53). gtkpod then dropped some of your songs -- fixed.

	Improvement: Delete works on entries in sort tabs now (ctrl-d and
	new menu item)

	Improvement?: don't close dirbrowser window until after the songs
	have been read.

	Improvement: display is updated while writing tags to disk "in the
	background"

	Bugfix: sometimes deleted songs were not removed from the
	display. Changing tags then could crash the program

	Bugfix: convert filenames ot UTF8 based on the charset chosen in
	the options window

	Bugfix: don't try to access iPod based files when in offline mode

gtkpod V0.41 01-Feb-2003
	- minor bugfixes (just possible segfaults and such)
	- window won't freeze during import/export/add operations
	- better handling of duplicate songs (e.g. duplicate songs are now
	  displayed in a window instead of on the console, if duplicate
	  detection is switched on later, duplicate songs are removed but
	  the playlists are preserved...)
	- confirmation window when quitting gtkpod without saving data
	- Drag-and-drop for sort tab entries
	- Japanese langauge catalogue

gtkpod V0.40 26-Jan-2003
	many new features:

	- Playlists (Drag-and-drop support)
	- Sort Tabs
	- Duplicate Detection
	- German language support
	- Charset for ID3 tags can be set
	- Offline modification of iPod contents (and later synchronisation)
	- Preferences

gtkpod V0.10
	basic tool to import/export songs to your iPod.
